Now, do we have to have
those description and
project ID in the main.tf anymore?
>> We're gonna get to that in a second,
yeah.
We're gonna get to that in a second.
Because the first thing we need to do is
we need to set up our locals to know which
values we care about and
which ones we don't.
I always try and start with that
then going to the first part and
then being like, boy, what do we rip up?
Because there is a couple of caveats
here that we haven't talked about yet.
The first one is, do you guys think that,
are these actually connected yet?
No, yeah, they're not.
We just made some variables and
put them over here, right?
So what we wanna do is,
we wanna actually make our modules
use these variables, right?
So I'm gonna swap this really quickly.
The first thing we want to use is actually
a concept in Terraform called for each.
Now for each, maybe you can guess it.
Can anyone tell me what for each might do?
>> Iterates over locals.
>> Exactly, yeah.
And so you can see here in my example
for_each local_project, right,
we're now iterating.
We are now using a for loop,
essentially, on this module, right?
That's the first thing we wanna do.
>> Is local, is that a magic variable,
or how does it know what local is?
>> So yeah, it's this, again,
they're called meta-arguments.
And it's this argument right here,
this locals is a specific in the same
way that we have module and module here.
We can also have locals, so I could
have more than one locals if I wanted,
like I could have 10 of them 20 of
them it doesn't matter the code.
The TerraForm will then merge all the
locals together so that you can use them.
But it's singular on
the left because syntax.
>> Wait, sorry.
What do you mean?
>> Singular, it's local.projects.
>> That's because that's
the actual value I'm using.
I'm actually using the locals.project.
So you see locals here.
And then the dot would be
the child you want to select.
In that case, then it would be project.
So, like,
>> So, let's take a list on the locals is
the list, and local is the,
>> So, locals is more of, like, the map.
And then we have lists inside of that map.
Yeah, so locals is like how TerraForm
allows us to create variables.
And then we create our own
variables inside of those locals.
And we use those.
There's no other way like you
can either do it as var right or
you can do it as locals.
Can anyone tell me potentially what might
be the difference between var and locals?
>> You usually use vars
when you need user input.
>> Exactly.
Yeah.
Whereas locals, it's local.
[LAUGH] Yeah, it's just local, right?
And so this is where we start leaning
on the declarative configuration
where I say like, well,
this isn't something I actually wanna make
configurable as a variable pass
to the whole automation repo.
This is a part of the automation repo.
If I wanna make another workspace,
I should be able to go into this repo,
as we said yesterday, and
just make a new workspace, right?
So that's the real goal of using
locals versus var, is var helps it so
that if you're reusing the whole
project somewhere else,
then you could change variables
from that perspective.
But if inside of that project you have,
again, variables and
things like that you don't wanna change,
then you can use locals.
>> I think the slight hiccup
was just that like locals
in the local.tf file is a plural word.
And on the left, we're using
the singular and it's like kind of.
>> Its tying what's actually telling
this that locals is the local.
>> I see.
So Terraform follows
basically folder structure.
So anything in this folder that's
named TF is gonna get joined together.
Does that make sense?
>> Yeah.
>> There's no imports.
There is imports, but
those are three modules.
>> And it's just a convention
of TerraForm that exactly
when you say the word
local it will look for
everything that has been concatenated
together from the locals key word.
>> Exactly yeah.
>> So magic.
>> [LAUGH] sure it's a bit of magic
yeah but it's really the scope is within
the directory that you're in, so
any TF file in that directory
Terraform is just gonna go .tf,
.tf, .tf, .tf okay, cool.
Here you go.
Right and if you got five locals
definitions inside of that,
hey go like it just, it's gonna
squish them and then give it to you.
But if I'm iterating with this my values
aren't actually being injected, are they?
If I iterate over this, I'm just gonna get
one project with the exact same thing.
Now again, it's one project, but
if I add more, it's going to get
more projects with the same stuff.
So what I wanna do is I
actually want to delete this.
Again, co-pilot thank you.
It's gonna actually populate what I need,
and because we're using a four each,
we can then use an more magic.
[LAUGH] We can use a another
keyword called Each,
which will make it so
that Anything in the four that we're
currently iterating over we
can access that value for it.
So in this case we say
each.value.description right and
then here we actually say each.
Nope, each.key,
right because it's key value, right?
Outside of that, that's pretty much it.
We've now wired up our project so
that it's interatible and
that it has dynamic values.
So then we do the exact same
thing to the work space.
So we're gonna do for_each =,
thank you, copilot.
All right and then again, I'm sure you
guys know what we're gonna do next.
Can you let copilot write code for us?
[LAUGH] Each.key, right?
Now I'm not gonna,
actually let's do this as well, right
Now it's actually wanted to do something
different but we're gonna do this instead.
Here we go, okay.
Yeah, each.value.project_id, cool.
OK, so do you guys think we're good here?
Or do you think we might?
And again, if you don't get it,
it's totally OK,
because you'd have to know Terraform
to kind of understand this.
But there is actually a problem
in my code right now.
There's something in here that's not
fully ready for these four loops yet.
>> It doesn't know which project
belongs to which workspace.
>> You've clearly used Terraform before,
yeah.
So the problem here is is that
we have module.project ID right,
but what do you think terraform
is gonna do with this for
loop when we have it named project?
What TerraForm actually ends up
doing is something kind of cool.
Project goes from this to this.
The reason why we can do this
is because we're leaning on that
key value approach, right.
We know that the name of the project
we're gonna create is ECI Project.
Now a little bit more magic here.
If we go back to our main,
whenever you iterate over a module or
any type of resource,
it keeps the main base name.
Right it'll keep the main base name,
but it's got to have uniqueness for
any of the other values.
So, again, it leans on that map key
value approach and then it says,
all right, well, I'll tell you what,
in this case, we'll just nest it so
that you can target
which project you want.
And because we have this naming
convention in place that we know,
that the key is gonna be the resource
name, then we can dynamically
tell TerraForm, hey,
when you load in the fem-eci-project and
you have that populated,
give me that ID, right?
This is why in the future
when we have more projects,
we can actually assign them
to different workspaces, and
we don't have to be worried about
dependencies or anything like that, right?
So this is the last little bit.
And again, if we open up both sides,
just make sure you've got
your code looking like that.
>> So if you were to add
a second project in Workspace,
you would change both fem-eci project
up there and in the workspace?
>> Exactly, yeah.
So let me give a little
bit of a further example.
So say if I wanted another project,
I'd go like this,
right, and say this is example, right?
And say if I wanted another workspace,
Geez.
I'm fat fingering here.
I'd grab this, paste this in, right?
And then call this example right now.
Right now, if I just do that,
both workspaces are gonna go
into the same project, right.
But if I go here and I say example,
now that project will go into
the example workspace, right?
This is the configuration domain that
we're trying to create for ourselves.
Yes.
>> I was thinking, so
if we had three projects and
two workspaces it wouldn't It
would only make two workspaces.
It wouldn't make two workspaces for
each project.
>> No, it wouldn't do that unless
you then went into here, right?
Because here's where we're iterating,
right?
And you can't actually do four and
fours, right?
And we're gonna do that later
towards the end of the class.
But yeah,
you can't actually do four and fours.
So 5,000 foot it real quick.
If you had an array of environments,
an array of services,
then you could technically deploy
all of your services to all of
your environments by just
iterating over those two arrays.
And again, that is a bit of a spoiler for
something we're gonna do later.